---
tags:
  - team
  - RQA
  - JRQA
  - conversation
  - communication
  - flow
  - coordination
  - triads
  - interaction_dominant
  - dynamics
  - flexibility
  - HAT
  - report
  - experiment
  - creativity
  - coordination_mode
  - interaction
  - iSAT
---
10.1016/j.procs.2020.02.270

[Demir, M., Amazeen, P. G., & Cooke, N. J. (2020). Examining human-autonomy team interaction and explicable behavior in a dynamic LEGO construction task. _Procedia Computer Science_, _168_, 195-201.](https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/280203/1-s2.0-S1877050920X0007X/1-s2.0-S1877050920304099/main.pdf?X-Amz-Security-Token=IQoJb3JpZ2luX2VjECwaCXVzLWVhc3QtMSJGMEQCIAqcPycBQaKeOk2%2B0Kyij63q8syPAjMUpV2UjIt0yIiGAiAqb%2BuYqr0HsXzqSv1w%2BR8csWNL7sIat2FIorjvwl%2FJFSq8BQiV%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F%2F8BEAUaDDA1OTAwMzU0Njg2NSIMzpgzj2itg1XNv7kQKpAFJAHB2u73dYkRsIJ2AkTTrimPTzBPLNPX3WXsmvXwaqB4hbMgpKWNGMXEC5JMlAT%2BgNN9xjBH%2F%2B7Qv7Y0qn9UHczxWXRNzvlG%2BetE2Ef0QlJAHXoEU7cyyZEr%2FFABTkMh1BdVF7d9HDOwsZNUgzpQ8fhkBmWPiURZVcPmZOBgiJ0Yv5Qrwz%2BUGiushhDIbfpF%2BU74Ha%2BFBy53lCtFgorxC7xso2cz%2Fx00liM9U1LnCBr617LKgNgv%2Bj7q6eTLQv%2BOzDTjZuR%2BpIqlOaYyXGYLf2Fu%2BRYYmYfxt6okaP2BuX%2B6ZVqFISF9K3wSvcZvrGAVlcmmQOjhW7%2FkbuGlO1JqXh9ipMy8%2BRZF4m5N1hX%2BkO13c%2FSBlCLybQtPU8%2FclGlMndZUK2kRx4w3Hyhm%2Bf0BuUubUunnxtJ8ElXST%2Fmi2qeAwc2mh3TyYwFjkByIfg3MfDU81gR%2BTBoN%2FosabgBc7rg1Vb9ItzCPGrYnD98zazQG3unATn5GcUKbC7B4QXSjVvGRFAHp2nuaCsAlqOxVNw%2FagyoD1nQuCf9LPxYpP%2BUgcBiIs1XuqxfsV71Eg3I49olt%2BmWVfxej4PXMBp1%2Fmvta56Nh0JhsMfEdC%2B0Fx5ftpJuvqqY3KmEOZQOFZ9JWGLUy%2B9GOMQpMVHmhqg52s%2FPGSeqiRDPNaVqWdPgcfqpUqLEI2eLcXDo519P5eZxr7xv3yCm5nEOyo%2BRUZQkxuX8k43ekqoUc2BrVeSRlay04j4SNCnj0SJkYwpu6nQcL2GlifR%2FGqfpfwgN5MXu3IjU1Ik9PZGqiV75dPelzIfQ8rhRjPucQmjR7s9Y59Uvu2%2BmSdPqrpKVdPEGjQGlfsNmhSVKNYffS0EcYaqscXTEwh9fauAY6sgGeyHApNXA9rv7dsOu0Ur8GTMuDFk%2FteH4Pg0Au2w4g%2BmYNxg4%2BqekOg88VUGHVxsGXQN7%2FXjekhAeU1iLdC8sjsiQpbMTkWtrpxAVZECyci6hD8zKRSMFmyPq4a8GNyfJ19j8O%2BuQ6U%2FMSibeYPhKLvUbYNZrEuo2QQwAdqNWT7M5V9tULn63uy%2BnqSSm8QZoCbyI672fBOC8qCPXiN%2B5Y1C1o35H7DOYetquUUu84ZbQ2&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Date=20241021T204154Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=300&X-Amz-Credential=ASIAQ3PHCVTY6PNDRONT%2F20241021%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Signature=3b6e7187a4c0d372954839a17feab301206c71a33364c06c4caa456b163bc4c6&hash=c19f8106d5140445120f42a2e4ed2b14536ab0d16708ae173e496d1f984e26d7&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S1877050920304099&tid=spdf-8095f93f-4210-486c-848a-214e2742fd74&sid=4745b3cb6963a44a1859b7a0660bd3caaeb9gxrqa&type=client&tsoh=d3d3LnNjaWVuY2VkaXJlY3QuY29t&ua=13155b04515652505054&rr=8d64123269bd1b19&cc=us)

- categorical time series data -> *communication flow*
	- 0 and 1 for three different team members
- Joint RQA

> Team science has long studied team coordination, i.e., the emerging behavior [13] of teams, and its relationship to measures of team performance [2]–[4], [6]–[8], [14]–[18]. Important features include dynamic stability and flexibility. When two or more people who may have diverse training and background knowledge work together to accomplish a team task, they must coordinate dynamically and adaptively. Variability in team coordination is needed to adapt to the current task environment and achieve the right balance of stability and flexibility of movement as a team [19]. Team flexibility, in which teams adapt by making needed adjustments, guarantees continued effective responses to changing situations [20], [21]. To accomplish this balance of dynamic stability and flexibility, the autonomous agent in an HAT must be able to communicate effectively as a team member.

>In this experiment, the participants complete experiments lasting up to 85 minutes. Team consists of three heterogeneous and interdependent team members working on a team coordination task which requires the assembly of LEGO components to build various objects (e.g., cars, ships). All communication between team members is done via text chat: (1) Foreman (either human or agent) orders pieces from the supplier to be delivered to the builder and gives instructions about the structure to the builder via text according to a LEGO plan. This is a critical role in terms of breaking down the steps of the plan. (2) Supplier (either human or agent) provides pieces to the builder. If needed, the supplier requests information from foreman about the current piece. (3) Builder (human) requests pieces from the supplier and integrates the pieces based on information from the foreman. The builder provides feedback to the supplier and foreman about whether or not the pieces fit.

### RQA / JRQA

> In this preliminary study, we use a dynamical systems method called Recurrence Quantification Analysis (RQA [33]). The basis of RQA is Recurrence Plot (RP; see [33]). RPs are an illustrative tool (see Fig. 2b and Fig. 2d) for visualizing temporal evolution of a dynamical system, when a system revisits similar points of phase space. Fig. 2b is a visual representation of categorical RP of a simple binary time series (Fig. 2a), x(t) = [1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0]. In this experience, the binary time series can be message sent (“1”) or message not sent (“0”). In this case, the value at x(1) is repeated at x(3), x(4), and x(8), and also, the value at x(3) is repeated at x(4) and x(8). The RP in Fig. 2b gives a visual summary of these patterns, as well as repetitions involving zeros. Conceptually, categorical RPs are constructed by placing a time series on both the horizontal and vertical axes of a graph. While the main diagonal results when the series is plotted against itself, off-diagonal points are plotted when the series repeats itself at a later point in time. The example given earlier concerning points x(1), x(3), x(4), and x(8) is visually depicted in Fig. 2b by tracing upwards from the bottom-left corner to the top-left corner of the plot. Points are plotted each time the value of x(1) repeats. 
> 
> RQA quantifies how many recurrences are present within a given length of one component in a multidimensional space (i.e. phase space) in which all possible states of a dynamical system are represented [34]. Additional RQAs can be applied when there are multiple system components (e.g. two or more team members ) interacting with each other, such as cross and joint recurrence quantification analyses (JRQA) [34]–[36]. 
> 
> Joint RQA investigates interaction patterns among a system’s components and their change over time. JRQA essentially assesses the coordination among interacting components as well as how much they influence each other. While RPs give a visual representation of how often a single component revisits certain states or sequences of states over time, the joint recurrence plot (JRP) displays the times when separate dynamical systems are in similar states [34]. JRQA assesses synchronization between interacting systems and provides temporal dynamics of observed time series (either categorical or continues variables). Construction of JRPs follows directly from this univariate case [7]. There are several metrics we can extract from JRP, including recurrence rate, determinism, maximum length, laminarity, trapping time, and longest vertical line [31]. In this study we only consider JRP rather than JRQA metrics because of the limited data. For the purpose of illustration, we analyzed preliminary communication flow data from one of the pilot teams in the all-human configuration. The JRP was constructed based on team communication flow (each team members’ message sent time; depicted in Fig. 2c). For JRP, three code sequences, each 40 minutes in length, from each team member (i.e. foreman, builder, and supplier) were considered (see Fig 2c). In Fig. 2c, the y-axis of each line graph for each role shows when messages were sent in any given minute: “1” for “message sent” and “0” for “no message sent”. In Fig. 2c, the foreman did not participate in the task as much as the other roles. The supplier and builder participated more, especially between the 3th and 17th minutes, which is depicted by the longer black diagonal line in Fig. 2d. Based on the communication content, there was a missing LEGO piece (i.e. roadblock) and the foreman pulled information from the builder by asking a “why” question (see Table 2 for the example chat messages), in which the team demonstrates explicable behavior (bold messages in the table) in a simple way regarding substituting the missing piece. This example from the all-human configuration provided some insight regarding how we can examine explicable behavior in the context of team coordination dynamics. When teams demonstrate explicable behavior during an unexpected event, such as discovery of a missing LEGO brick, they demonstrate a different coordination pattern. The reason is that all three team members pushed and pulled information at the same time to overcome the roadblock.